JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight:
There was a time when summer
TV was largely confined
to reruns.
But that has changed
dramatically in the
world of streaming video.
And, in fact, a new summer
season is under way.
Jeffrey Brown has a look.
JEFFREY BROWN: The summer season
has changed so much, that it's
now when some of the best-known
shows debut new episodes.
High on that list, the fantasy
series "Game of Thrones," which
run the Emmy for best drama
and is back on HBO.
"Orange Is the New Black" will
air new episodes on Netflix.
NBC returns with its
surprise comedy hit
"The Carmichael Show."
And there are plenty
of new options such
as "Claws," a Southern
crime drama with a comic
edge that comes to TNT, a show
about the founding of the first
women's wrestling federation
called "GLOW" on Netflix, and a
Showtime drama about struggling
comics in the 1970s called
"I'm Dying Up Here."
Two TV critics, I hope they're
not dying where we are talking
to them, from all of television.
They're going to help us
sort through the season, Eric
Deggans of NPR and Sonia Saraiya
of "Variety."
Thanks, both, for joining us.
I don't know how you keep up
with this, but help us out here.
First of all, Eric,
summer season, does it
actually mean anything?
Is there any rhyme
or reason anymore?
ERIC DEGGANS, National Public
Radio: Well, you know, TV is
a business that loves habits.
And so, for the
broadcasters especially,
there is a summer season.
I think it's less so for
the cable nets, and it's
even less so for the
streamers like Netflix,
which seem to churn out a new
series just about every week.
But there is a sense that the
TV season is slowing down a
little bit, and we're seeing
shows that are less than
marquee shows debuting
during the next few months.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Sonia, let
me start with you with one of
the new ones coming -- I mean,
one of the old ones coming
back, a successful one, is
Aziz Ansari's "Master of None."
Let's take -- first, let's
take a quick look at a clip.
ALESSANDRA MASTRONARDI,
Actress: This is really good.
AZIZ ANSARI, Actor: I told you.
Aren't you glad you
expanded your culinary
horizons beyond Italian?
ALESSANDRA
MASTRONARDI: Yes, I am.
You're right.
What else should I try
when I'm in New York?
AZIZ ANSARI: Indian food.
ALESSANDRA MASTRONARDI:
No, nobody likes curry.
AZIZ ANSARI: Racist.
ALESSANDRA MASTRONARDI: I
said I don't like curry food.
I didn't say I don't
like curry people.
AZIZ ANSARI: All right, I was
kidding earlier, but the phrase
curry people, definitely racist.
ALESSANDRA MASTRONARDI:
I'm not racist.
AZIZ ANSARI: You can't
say curry person.
I'm not a curry person.
I'm not defined by the
flavors my people enjoy.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sonia, I saw you
both actually smiling watching
or even listening to that.
Sonia, tell us why
you like that show.
SONIA SARAIYA, "Variety": You
know, "Master of None" is --
it's such a delicate little,
beautiful show.
Its a half-hour, but
it's so cinematic.
There is -- actually, the
second season references
Italian cinema a lot.
You know, it's Aziz Ansari more
or less playing himself, you
know, trying to understand his
life and figure out the world.
And, you know, a big thing
that motivates him, as you
can sort of tell, that's kind
of a date that he is on in
that clip, and, you know,
figuring out his love life is a
big part of it.
But at the end of the first
season, he decided he wanted
to go to Italy and learn how to
make pasta because that
was something that he
wanted to do in his life.
The second season is
about him broadening
his horizons even more.
It is like a lovely little
vacation, that show.
JEFFREY BROWN: Eric, I'm going
to have you tell us about "House
of Cards," because, indeed,
Kevin Spacey and Robin
Wright are back as Frank
and Claire Underwood.
Let's look at a
little clip of that.
ROBIN WRIGHT, Actress: Why
did you ask him to leave?
KEVIN SPACEY, Actor: Because
I just wanted to look in your
eyes one more time before
we do this.
ROBIN WRIGHT: Francis,
we're doing this.
He can't save us.
He invented term limits.
JEFFREY BROWN: Eric,
they are still doing it.
They are still plotting.
It goes on and on.
ERIC DEGGANS: Yes.
And, you know, I know
am so people have grown
tired of "House of Cards."
And I think, if you are one
of those people, you are not
going to necessarily like the
new season.
But the new season does have a
lot of political machinations
that I think are sort of the
heart of the show's appeal.
And it also really deals with
the tension and the partnership
between these two very
singular characters, Frank
Underwood by Kevin Spacey and
Claire Underwood played by Robin
Wright.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let's look
ahead at some new programs that
you are looking forward to.
Sonia, start us
off, start us off.
What are a couple of
things you really want
to let us know about?
SONIA SARAIYA: Yes, absolutely.
Well, there is this crazy
little show called "Claws" on
TNT that is debuting next week,
I think.
And it stars Niecy Nash as a
manicurist who kind of also
dabbles in some mob activity,
and it takes place in
Manatee County in Florida.
And just everything
about it is so different.
It is so different
from most other stuff
you would find on TV.
The nails are
amazing, obviously.
The fashion, the style
is just so much fun.
And you get to see these women
who are painting nails also
launder money and maybe commit
a few murders here and there.
There is something a little
bit silly and a little
bit fun about it too.
But it also really takes a
look at some of the real issues
that affect people in places
that don't often make
it to your TV screen.
So, I'm really looking forward
to see how that goes too.
ERIC DEGGANS: Well, you
mentioned at the start
of this segment "GLOW,"
the Netflix series
about the -- well,
the gorgeous ladies of
wrestling is what I think.
It is about the start of
a female wrestling league.
And it is really the start about
these sort of lovable losers
and their attempts to sort
of find themselves while
they build this very
fledgling operation,
which is a female-centered
wrestling league
in the mid-'80s.
And it is a show that
kind of sneaks up on you.
And, you know, Marc Maron is
great as the sort of B-movie
director who decides to try
and find another career by
starting this wrestling league.
And I would compare it a little
more favorably to another
show that you mentioned called
"I'm Dying Up Here," a Showtime
series about young comics
working out of a legendary comic
nightclub in Los Angeles.
It is fictionalized, but it
also has real people in it.
It is based on a book that
is actually about very real
comics like David Letterman and
Jay Leno and how they
started in Los Angeles.
And because the show has a hard
time walking that line between
fictional characters that
it takes liberties with and
real characters, like Johnny
Carson and Richard Pryor, who
also show up, I think
the show isn't quite as
impactful as it could be.
But it is also a show about
lovable losers trying to find
themselves and make it in an
industry that is really very
difficult, which is Hollywood
in the late 1970s, early '80s.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right,
one bonus, real quick for me,
if you would, some show that
you love, but you
don't think has gotten
enough attention, Eric?
ERIC DEGGANS: It's not
in new episodes yet.
It will come back.
It is a show called
"Throwing Shade" on TV Land.
It is a late-night talk show
with a feminist and a gay man
talking about the day's news,
two points of view that are
woefully underrepresented
in the late-night scheme.
I thought it was
brilliant when it was on.
And it should come back to
new episodes relatively soon.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK.
Sonia?
SONIA SARAIYA: I am going to
go with "The Carmichael Show."
It is an NBC sitcom that is
coming into its third season.
It is this little show that
has been running on the summer.
And I feel like, every season,
it comes up with even more
topics and even more humor
than -- to tackle in this,
like, fascinating way that --
I just think everyone should be
watching this show.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sonia Saraiya
of "Variety," Eric Deggans of
NPR, thank you both very much.